Disaster Criteria:

For a disaster to be entered into the database at least one of the following criteria must be fulfilled:

• Ten (10) or more people reported killed.
• Hundred (100) or more people reported affected.
• Declaration of a state of emergency.
• Call for international assistance.


Disaster Classification:

'EM-DAT distinguishes two generic categories for disasters (natural and technological),
the natural disaster category being divided into 5 sub-groups, which in turn cover 12
disaster types and more than 30 sub-types.

Geophysical => Events originating from solid earth 	ie: Earthquake,Volcano,Mass Movement (dry)

Meteorological => Events caused by short-lived/small to meso scale atmospheric processes
                  (in the spectrum from minutes to days)  ie: Storm
                  
Hydrological =>	Events caused by deviations in the normal water cycle and/or overflow of bodies
                of water caused by wind set-up 	ie: Flood,Mass Movement (wet)

Climatological => Events caused by long-lived/meso to macro scale processes (in the spectrum from
                  intra-seasonal to multi-decadal climate variability)
                  ie: Extreme Temperature,Drought,Wildfire
                  
Biological => Disaster caused by the exposure of living organisms to germs and toxic substances
              ie: Epidemic,Insect infestation,Animal Stampede


Fields:

Start:          The date which the disaster began.
End:            The date which the disaster ended.
Country:        Country(ies) in which the disaster has occurred.
Location:       A sub-location classification if available.
Type:           The type of disaster according to pre-defined classification.
Sub_Type:       Further classification of the type of disaster.
Name:           The name of the disaster if available.
Killed:         Persons confirmed as dead and persons missing and presumed dead
                (official figures when available).
Affected:       Total of people injured, homeless, and affected. Where
                affected means people requiring immediate assistance during a period
                of emergency;it can also include displaced or evacuated people
Cost:           Several institutions have developed methodologies to quantify
                these losses in their specific domain. However, there is no standard
                procedure to determine a global figure for economic impact. Estimated
                damage are given (000’)
Id:             A unique identifier for the disaster.

License:


General Clause

The EM-DAT database is protected by the law of 30 June 1994 on copyright and the law of 31 August 1998
on the legal protection of databases. EM-DAT was created in 1988 at the Université catholique de
Louvain by researchers at the Centre de Recherche sur l’Epidemiologie des Desastres – Centre for
Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters (CRED). The database was set up with the support of the WHO
and the Belgian government. Since 1999, CRED has received support from the Office of Foreign Disaster
Assistance (OFDA) of the US Agency for International Development (USAID). The Université catholique de
Louvain holds the copyright for the database. The EM-DAT database has been made available for
unrestricted access free of charge by UCL so that anyone with a query can obtain information.

The reproduction and communication of the information obtained using the EM-DAT is authorised by any
means and in all forms, provided that the source is mentioned clearly as follows:

"EM-DAT: The OFDA/CRED International Disaster Database – www.emdat.be – Université Catholique de Louvain – Brussels – Belgium."
                

                
